(upbeat music)
[Instructor - Wes] So there are two tools
that are extremely helpful in code quality
and formatting of your JavaScript.
Whether you're a sole developer
looking to write best practices,
looking to catch potential bugs,
and also just not to worry
about formatting of your JavaScript,
or if you're on a team where,
often you join a team and your team says,
"This is the way we write our JavaScript."
Let me just take a look at some JavaScript here.
So, the fact that he used single quotes
versus double quotes.
So, let's talk about that,
but that's an opinion that people have.
The fact that it put a space here is actually not necessary.
That's an opinion that people have in their JavaScript.
So, there's all these kind of things
that are either going to cause potential issues
in your code or are just sort of like
formatting that people have opinions about.
These tools are going to sort of take the guess work
and the fighting and the bickering over these things
and either just fix it for you
or alert you when you're doing something
that is potentially a bad practice
or has an accessibility issue and what not.
So, we're going to look at the two tools.
The first one is called ESLint,
second one is called Prettier.
Recommend that you open up ESLint,
go to ESLint.org and go to the demo
and then Prettier there's a link on the homepage
that says, "try it".
And we're going to sorta go through explain what they are,
how they work, and then I'm going to step you through
actually installing them for yourself.
So, first thing ESLint is a JavaScript linter tool,
for identifying and reporting
potential issues in your JavaScript.
So, some examples might be bad practices
or design patterns, or identifying unused variables
or functions. Actually, if you go the ESLint,
I think I've got to flip mine over
to the latest version of JavaScript.
Just go ahead go to rules, config, and flip that on to 2019
or whatever the latest version is available
at the time of you watching this.
And if I just say like const age is equal to a hundred and..
First here it's saying unexpected token age, why is that?
And I just say like const age,
lets see we'll do a hundred
and now it's telling me my first linting error here.
It says "age is assigned a value but never used".
Okay. So if I were to go ahead and use it,
then that should go away.
There you go,
and now it's telling me unexpected console statement.
So, one of the rules that they have here is
don't use console dot log,
and that would be a rule for production,
because you shouldn't be leaving these in
when your deploy your code to actual things.
You can turn these rules on and off,
don't worry we can config them.
I'm going to show you my own config,
and the here it's telling me console is not defined.
You can actually look at the rules that you have here.
You can turn on, enable all environments.
These are all the different possible rules.
What I like about this is as you write your code,
it's going to tell you what the error is
and you may look at that and be like,
"What's, what's, well what's wrong with that?"
Well you can click the rule and then you can go through
and sort of read, why this rule is here
and sort of the opinion
and whether you want to turn it off or turn it on.
Depending on where you're at.
That's what ESLint is.
So, some other thing broken or confusing scoping.
So, if I were to have a function here that says hi,
and I were to take a variable called name
and say is equal to Wes.
It's going to tell me hi is defined but never used
and then read only global names should not be modified.
So, that's another little issue
that there's actually a global variable in here called name.
So, if I were to make a function called hi
and inside of that I just said like age is equal to 200.
Now it's telling me I made a function called hi
and there's an age variable that I've not yet defined,
so it could maybe go ahead and put let in front of that.
Now it's telling me hi is not defined.
So, maybe I can run it
and don't worry we haven't done what functions are just yet.
Now it's saying age is assigned, but never used.
So lets console.log the age.
Now it's going to tell me there's no console
and you can click through to that.
So, it's always going to be giving you feedback
on your code,
and initially it's going to be extremely frustrating
because it tells you all of your code is wrong
and over time you sort of will be able to modify
your own config that fits your own coding style
as well as wise up to why some of these things
may be necessarily bad practices in what not.
ESLint is also pluggable
which means that you can have different
sort of plug ins for it.
There's many for different styles of JavaScript.
Different things, like you can get a view plugin,
you can get a react plugin, you can get an angular plugin.
For so, whatever sort of flavor of JavaScript
you end up writing, you can get a plugin for that.
So, that's sort of a high level of what ESLint is.
We'll talk a little bit more about configuring it,
errors, and warnings in just a second.
The next tool that we have here is Prettier.
So, whereas ESLint will yell at you
for things that are causing potential issues with your code.
Prettier is entirely for formatting of your code.
So, I've got some code here.
I'm going to bump this up here.
And let's say I like to put lot's of spaces in my code.
That's actually, technically a valid JavaScript.
However, it looks awful or when people call a function,
like if you say alert and then a space
and put hi there. That's technically valid JavaScript.
Like we said earlier leaving the semicolons off,
that's technically valid JavaScript.
These are sort of annoying things.
Even like with the indentation.
You've all met some one who is just awful
at indenting their code,
and you look at it and it's just the dogs breakfast.
So, what prettier will do
it will sort of take in all of your code,
if you're like mixing your quotes.
So you have alert hi there and alert double quotes here.
We'll talk about the difference between
single and double and back text art.
It will always just format them into a consistent one
depending on the setting that you have.
Prettier is pretty opinionated.
There are a few settings we can toggle here or there,
but mostly you sort of just have to let it figure out
how you wanted to format your code.
So, you can use ESLint and Prettier separately.
You can pick just one of them,
but what I like to do is use ESLint and then I use,
like to use the Prettier plugin for ESLint
so that all of my code goes through ESLint.
ESLint is going to both tell me
what is possibly wrong with my code
and then any possible issues that ESLint is able to fix
including the Prettier fixes.
It will go ahead and fix those for us.
So, sorta the thing with ESLint is you install it
and then you spend the rest of your life configuring it up
based on these like hundreds of possible things here.
You can go ahead and do that
but it's like that you want to pick somebody else's settings
that you already like,
and that's exactly what I've gone ahead and done.
Is I've made a config which is a set of ESLint rules
as well as the Prettier plug in
that will do the formatting for you
all bundled into one
so that you can sort of hit the ground running
with that config, and then as you start to develop
your own opinions for what you like,
you can sort of override those one by one.
Based off like maybe you prefer to use,
I prefer to use single quotes,
but maybe you prefer to use double quotes.
You can go ahead and change that.
So, lets go in and look at how we can actually
go ahead and install this thing.
What I want you to do is to go into your terminal here,
and I want you to be in the beginner JavaScript folder
that we have here.
SO, if you don't know where you are type p-w-d
and make sure you are in the beginner JavaScript.
Now there's a couple things we need to do
before we even get going.
Just going to go ahead
and follow the instructions that we have here.
You can install this globally as well as per project.
What I do is I usually install it just globally for,
so that all of the projects I use are covered
and then for each individual project
that is more than just a simple silly little demo,
I'll install it locally.
So, I'm going to show you how to install it
locally per project,
because that's the way you probably should do it
for all of your projects.
So, first thing is,
if you don't already have a package json,
create one with npm init.
We're going to talk about npm much later in this course,
but essentially npm allows us to download
what are called dependencies.
Other people's JavaScript packages
that allow us to do things,
and we need other peoples JavaScript packages.
We need ESLint. We need Prettier. We need my own config.
So in order for that to work
we need a what's called a package dot json file
and that's going to hold a list
of all of the other things in JavaScript that we need.
So, you simply just type n-p-m in it
and you can just hit enter on that,
enter, and you just keep hitting enter until it's done.
Ohhhh. What's this?
Oh that's cryption. It took everything from my read me.
I'll take that out later.
Okay, so that's my index.
Don't worry to much about what's going on in here.
Then we need to go ahead
and install all of our dependencies for this thing
so just go ahead
and copy this from the ESLint config wesbos readme.
So, just copy, paste that in there.
After about a minute or so,
it will go ahead and install all of your files.
If you actually take a look at all of your file system,
you will see
that there is this new folder called
"node modules" and inside of that
is a bunch of dependencies.
We're not going to get into what that is just yet.
That's going to be coming in our modules
but just for now we need to know that.
That contains all of the sort of JavaScript
that makes ESLint and Prettier run.
So, that's what we have here,
next we need to make a new file in that folder,
beginning JavaScript called dot ESLINT R-C.
So, this is what's called a dot file
and sometimes your computer will hide dot files
from you because they're sort of like invisible files
that are only used for developers under the hood.
However we are developers so what we can do
is just go to your beginner JavaScript
and just create a new file in the root.
If you're having trouble with this,
make sure you put it in the right folder
and we will say ESLint r-c
and that will then be created.
If you have trouble seeing that file in your file system,
just do a quick google for show hidden files mac,
show hidden files windows
and it will show you how to flip that on.
Inside of your ESLint r-c
this is where we can go ahead and put our config.
So, the config will look like this.
It's just and object.
Which we don't know what that is yet, but we will.
You will see that it extends wesbos.
Meaning that it's going to extend
all of the setting and plugins
that I've packed into my own config
and that's really all we need right now.
Next, what we have here,
I'm showing you how to add mpn scripts.
That's much more involved that what we have.
What we want to do it get it running with VS Code.
So, what I like to do is
scroll down to here to say with VS Code.
First thing you need to do
is install the ESLint package for...
is install ESLint package for VS Code.
So, I think it is command shift.
Yeah, command shift X or control shift X
will get you to the list of extensions in VS Code,
and then there you can search for EXLint
and you're going to see
a whole bunch of the different ones that we have here,
but the one that you want is just called ESLint.
You will know that its the right one
because is has a billion installs.
Let me go ahead and click on install.
Obviously, I've already done that myself.
Now what we need to do is set up some VS Code settings
and this is if you go to
file.
So we go to the top right hand corner
and that will say code,
or if you're on Windows you go to file and then preferences.
You should see one called settings.
I'll post a screen shot of what that looks right now.
This is going to pull up,
you've probably been in here before,
this is a list of all the settings that VS Code has.
What you want to do it click on these little curly brackets
in the top right corner
and that's going to open up the actual text
based one of your settings, and then simply just copy
and paste all of the settings that we have in here.
So, maybe just go to the bottom
and take a look at what the last setting was.
Mine is, doesn't really matter what your last one was.
The only thing you need to know is
you put a comma after the last one,
and then just go ahead
and paste in all of those settings
that we just pasted there,
and let me run through them real quick.
So editor.formatonsave is true.
So let me go through these setting real quick.
This just turns on the format onsave.
There is other plugins that you have in VS Code,
you might have different languages like CSS formatters
that need this turned on.
So, this will just make sure it's turned on,
and then what we do is turn it off for JavaScript
and then I've also turned it off for JavaScript react.
Which is if you're a reactive helper
you'll want to do that as well.
Cause prettier and ESLint work with react as well.
So, turn those to false
and turn the ESLint setting of fixonsave to true.
So. If you don't do this,
sometimes there's like built in plugins with VS Code
where they start to clash
and they both want to like fix your code.
The built in one on VS Code is called beautifier
and it doesn't do as good of job as ESLint and Prettier.
So, what this does is it turns is off for JavaScript
and then we turn on our own ESLint on there
and then also if you have the Prettier extension.
I said earlier.
Also finally this is important
if you have the Prettier extension enabled,
I do not, because I don't have
a Prettier extension on VS Code,
but sometimes people will use Prettier
to format other languages like there's a php Prettier,
there's a css Prettier,
and if you have that
you want to disable that for JavaScipt react.
Why?
Because we're not doing Prettier
through the Prettier plugin
we're doing Prettier through the ESLint plugin.
Which is a little bit confusing.
This stuff can be a real bummer to set up,
so if you have any troubles watch this video again.
Go through all the steps.
I've even got some troubleshooting in the read me.
The way that you can tell that it's working.
I'm just going to go back
and not change anything
because I've already have it set up myself.
Is if you now go to any sort of JavaScript file
and you should see in the bottom right hand corner
it should say ESLint.
If you click it.
You can maybe do, start writing some bad JavaScript.
So, maybe put some spaces in there
and then when I hit save, it's not working.
I'm going to go ahead and try to restart it.
There we go , just restarted my VS Code,
and after a second I hit command S to save my file
and you'll see that it will automatically will format it.
So, I'm going to do,
I'm going to put some double quotes here,
and forget a semicolon.
I'm going to put console and log on it's own line.
I'm going to put a bunch of spaces in here,
and then as soon as I hit save.
You see that it will automatically format it for myself.
If you, if it isn't working
you can click on this little ESLint in the bottom corner
and this will often tell you what the issues
are with it actually running.
Another thing that can happen,
like lets say I just do age is equal to a hundred.
You'll see that I've got these little like underlines,
like you spelled a word wrong
and what this is doing,
that's ESLint telling you what has happened.
It's telling me here replace age with age equals
and it's telling me the error is age is not defined.
So, if I were to save that it fixes the formatting,
but it's not going to actually fix my code.
I have to manually go ahead and make that decision there.
If I make is a let, give it a save.
Oh, you see that right there?
I made it a let and gave it a save
and because ESLint sees that I've made it a let variable,
but I've never reassigned the value of it.
It says, you probably meant to const that by default.
Now you see another one under here.
It's yellow which means it's a warning.
Red is an error, and then a yellow is just a warning.
It's saying just a heads up
you made this variable called age,
but your never actually using it.
So, if I were to go ahead and use that value
then it immediately goes away.
We're going to be using that a lot
throughout this class here.
If you ever do run into an issue that you don't like
you can just go ahead and modify your ESLint r-c file
and change it to whatever it is you want.
This is the way that it works.
You make a rules property here.
We'll talk about what this is.
This is a JavaScript object here and you can set,
you can set rules to two if you want them to error.
Set them to one if you want them to warn,
and zero if you want to ignore that rule entirely.
So, you might run across some stuff you're like,
"You know what Wes, I know better than you.
I'm going to turn this rule off for myself.",
and you can just set it to something like that.
I think that's it.
Hopefully you can get that up and running.
If it doesn't work, try at it for 20 minutes or so,
jump into the slack room and try to get some help.
I know that this stuff is really finicky.
Especially if you're not using
the exact sort of same set up as me.
That's exactly what I've used my ESLint config here,
because people have spent hours on it,
but I don't let this sort of stop you
from going forward in the course
if it's something that you're not able to get going.
So, put a honest half and hour into it if its broken.
Hopefully it will work right away.
Other than that just keep rolling
with the course and see if some one else can help you out.